---
title: "MACS0416"
categories:
  - name: other
published_date: "2023-11-23"
template: page
buildScript: "/scripts/processNote.js"
---

Imagine a portion of the night sky about 1/15th of the diameter of the Moon. Now combine visible light observations from Hubble with infrared data from the James Webb Space Telescope, and you get [this](https://webbtelescope.org/contents/media/images/2023/146/01HDHATAQXM532HCNQN6BQ79BC):

![A field of galaxies on the black background of space. In the middle, stretching from left to right, is a collection of dozens of yellowish spiral and elliptical galaxies that form a foreground galaxy cluster. They form a rough, flat line along the center. Among them are distorted linear features, which mostly appear to follow invisible concentric circles curving around the center of the image. The linear features are created when the light of a background galaxy is bent and magnified through gravitational lensing. At center left, a particularly prominent example stretches vertically about three times the length of a nearby galaxy. A variety of brightly colored, red and blue galaxies of various shapes are scattered across the image, making it feel densely populated. Near the center are two tiny galaxies compared to the galaxy cluster: a very red edge-on spiral and a very blue face-on spiral, which provide a striking color contrast.](/static/images/20231123-MACS0416.jpg)

Look at the number of galaxies!! Hundreds of billions of stars in each one. All in one small patch of the night sky (granted that's a galaxy cluster). Wow
